Docs fixes arising from testing the local deployment workflow for mobile. (#723)
spatialos/gdk-for-unity: docs/content/mobile/ios/local-deploy.md

# Connect to a local deployment

Before reading this document, make sure you are familiar with:

  * [Setting up iOS Support for the GDK]({{urlRoot}}/content/mobile/ios/setup)
  * [Ways to test your iOS client]({{urlRoot}}/content/mobile/ios/ways-to-test)

> ## Connect to a local deployment in the Editor{#in-editor}

Reviewer: I think in general we tried to go for "your", so let's try to stick to that convention

> ## Connect to a local deployment in the Editor{#in-editor}

Author: I've changed all instances of
>the Unity Editor
to
>your Unity Editor

except in instances where the editor in question is not on the user's machine (e.g: when noting bugs in the editor on the Known Issues page)

1. In the Unity Editor, Select **SpatialOS** > **Local launch**.

>     > **It’s done when:** You see the following message in the terminal: `SpatialOS ready. Access the Inspector at http://localhost:21000/inspector`

Reviewer 2: Avoid the grey box as this is part of the flow. Saving grey boxes for tips which aren't part of the flow.

Author: fixed

>     > **It’s done when:** You see the following message in the terminal: `SpatialOS ready. Access the Inspector at http://localhost:21000/inspector`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**It’s done when:** You see the following message in the terminal: `SpatialOS ready. Access the Inspector at http://localhost:21000/inspector`
```

Author: fixed

> 1. In your Unity Editor, open the `FPS-Development` Scene and click the Play button.<br/>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. In your Unity Editor, open the `FPS-Development` Scene and select Play button.<br/>
```

We use the MMoS and it's always "select". Also note the consistency of "your" Unity Editor or "the" Unity Editor.

Author: fixed all instances in this repo apart from right-click and double-click, for which I cannot think of a suitable replacement (and neither can the Microsoft Style Guide).

> ## Connect to a local deployment using Unity Remote{#unity-remote}

Reviewer 2: Same comment about "Connect to a local deployment" - we repeat this several times in a doc which is only about connecting to a local deployment.

Author: fixed

> You need the Unity Remote app installed on your iOS device in order to follow the below steps. See the [Unity documentation](https://docs.unity3d.com/Manual/UnityRemote5.html) for details.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You need the Unity Remote app installed on your iOS device in order to follow the steps below. See the [Unity documentation](https://docs.unity3d.com/Manual/UnityRemote5.html) for details.
```

Author: fixed

> 1. Open your project in the Unity Editor.

Reviewer 2: the or your Unity Editor

Author: fixed

1. Build your workers from the SpatialOS menu by selecting **Build for local** > **All workers**.
1. Connect your iOS device to your computer using a USB cable. Accept the **Trust This Computer** alert if it appears.
1. Open the project that you want to deploy with the Unity Editor and go to **Edit** > **Project Settings** > **Editor** to bring up the **Editor Settings** window.

> 1. In the **Unity Remote** section, click on the drop-down menu beside the **Device** option and select **Any iOS Device**.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. In the **Unity Remote** section, select **Device** > **Any iOS Device**.
```

Author: fixed

1. On your mobile device, open the **Unity Remote** app. Make sure you allow it permissions for location and camera.
1. In the Unity Editor, Select **SpatialOS** > **Local launch**.

>     > **It’s done when:** You see the following message in the terminal: `SpatialOS ready. Access the Inspector at http://localhost:21000/inspector`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**It’s done when:** You see the following message in the terminal: `SpatialOS ready. Access the Inspector at http://localhost:21000/inspector`
```
Keep these for tips as this is part of the flow. It gets a bit box-tastic otherwise. (This is something we have started doing in the docs due to box overload.)

Author: fixed

> 1. Open the scene that starts both your [client]({{urlRoot}}/content/glossary#client-worker) and [server-workers]({{urlRoot}}/content/glossary#server-worker). In the FPS Starter Project this is `FPS-Development.scene`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Open the Scene that starts both your [client-worker]({{urlRoot}}/content/glossary#client-worker) and [server-workers]({{urlRoot}}/content/glossary#server-worker). In the FPS Starter Project this is `FPS-Development.scene`.
```

Author: fixed

> 1. Open the scene that starts both your [client]({{urlRoot}}/content/glossary#client-worker) and [server-workers]({{urlRoot}}/content/glossary#server-worker). In the FPS Starter Project this is `FPS-Development.scene`.

Reviewer 3: Using `client` and `server-worker` feels a bit inconsistent. Should we use `client-worker` and `server-worker` instead?

Reviewer 2: +1 "Client" means your client executable.

Author: fixed in both iOS & Android, good spot

1. In the Editor’s Game view, select **Play**.

>     > You can change the resolution of the Game view in your Unity Editor to make sure it does not appear stretched on your mobile device. Choose the resolution that’s identical to your mobile device to produce the best results.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    > **TIP:** You can change the resolution of the Game view in your Unity Editor to make sure it does not appear stretched on your mobile device. Choose the resolution that’s identical to your mobile device to produce the best results.
```

Author: fixed

1. You should now see your Unity Editor game view mirrored on your iOS device.

> 1. When you're done, select **Play** to stop your client and input **Ctrl-C** in the terminal that's running the SpatialOS process to stop it.

Reviewer 2: The second phrase is very slightly awkward to read, so rejigged.
In the MMoS, which we use; they have "enter" as the verb and "Crtl+C".

```suggestion
1. When you're done, select **Play** to stop your client and, in the terminal window that's running the SpatialOS process, enter Ctrl+C to stop the process. 
```

Author: fixed

> ## Connect to a local deployment using iOS Simulator{#ios-simulator}

Reviewer 2: Same comment as above.

Author: fixed

  1. Open your project in the Unity Editor.

>   2. Build your workers from the SpatialOS menu by selecting **Build for local** > **All workers**.

Reviewer 3: Using `1.` to number every item as in other lists would probably make it easier to modify it later

Author: agreed, my VS Code auto-corrects this sometimes and it drives me up the wall

1. Open the Scene that starts both your [client-workers]({{urlRoot}}/content/glossary#client-worker) and [server-workers]({{urlRoot}}/content/glossary#server-worker). In the FPS Starter Project this is `FPS-Development.scene`.
1. In the Editor’s Game view, select **Play**.

    > **TIP:** You can change the resolution of the Game view in your Unity Editor to make sure it does not appear stretched on your mobile device. Choose the resolution that’s identical to your mobile device to produce the best results.

1. You should now see your Unity Editor game view mirrored on your iOS device.
1. When you're done, select **Play** to stop your client and, in the terminal window that's running the SpatialOS process, enter **Ctrl+C** to stop the process.

## iOS Simulator{#ios-simulator}

1. Open your project in the Unity Editor.
1. Build your workers from the SpatialOS menu by selecting **Build for local** > **All workers**.
1. In the Unity Editor, Select **SpatialOS** > **Local launch**. It’s done when you see the following message in the terminal: `SpatialOS ready. Access the Inspector at http://localhost:21000/inspector`.

> 1. In the Unity Editor, navigate to **Edit** > **Project Settings** > **Player**. This should open **PlayerSettings** in the Inspector window.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. In the Unity Editor, navigate to **Edit** > **Project Settings** > **Player**. This opens **PlayerSettings** in the Inspector window.
```

> 1. In the Inspector window, navigate to **Settings for iOS (the iPhone icon)** > **Other Settings** > **Configuration** > **Target SDK** and choose **Simulator SDK**.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. In the Inspector window, select the iPhone icon to open the **Settings for iOS** tab. 
1. In the tab, select  **Other Settings** to open the drop-down menu.
1. In the **Configuration** section,  locate the  **Target SDK** field and select **Simulator SDK**.
```

Reviewer 2: I still think breaking this into steps is easier to follow.

> 1. Also in the **Configuration** section of the Inspector window, select **Targer minimum iOS version** and input `10.0`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Still in the **Configuration** section, locate the **Target minimum iOS version** field and enter `10.0`.
```

Reviewer 2: I think 'select` for clicking on things? `locate` for a field and title?

> 1. In the Unity Editor, navigate to **File** > **Build Settings**, and ensure that iOS is selected. Selection is indicated by a Unity logo that appears next to the name of the selected platform. If iOS is not selected, select it and then select **Switch Platform**.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. In the Unity Editor, navigate to **File** > **Build Settings**, and check that you have that iOS as your target platform. The target platform has a Unity logo next to it. 
<br/>If iOS is not the target platform, select it and then select **Switch Platform**.
```
Attempted to get rid of all the "select" terms. :-)

> 1. Select **Build and Run**. This prompts you to choose where to save the XCode project that Unity generates. After you've selected the directory, Unity generates the XCode project, opens it in XCode and starts the build. If the build succeeds, XCode starts a Simulator and installs the game on it.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Now select **Build and Run**. This prompts you to choose where to save the XCode project that Unity generates. 
<br/>After you've selected the directory, Unity generates the XCode project, opens it in XCode and starts the build. If the build succeeds, XCode starts a Simulator and installs the game on it.
```

  * If you choose **Build**, instead of **Build and Run**, Unity generates a XCode project and opens the folder containing the project.
1. Once the game is deployed and started on the Simulator, you see an empty text field and a **Connect** button: Select **Connect**.

>     > You don’t need to enter anything in the text field.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Note: You don’t need to enter anything in the text field.
```
Now avoiding boxes as it gets box-tastic.

Reviewer 2: This one?

1. Play the game on the Simulator.
1. When you're done, select **Play** to stop your client and, in the terminal window that's running the SpatialOS process, enter **Ctrl+C** to stop the process.

## iOS device{#ios-device}

1. Set up [Code signing and provisioning](https://help.apple.com/xcode/mac/current/#/dev60b6fbbc7).
1. Make sure your computer and your mobile device are both connected to the same wireless network.
1. Connect the mobile device to your computer using a USB cable.

> 1. Build your workers from the SpatialOS menu by selecting **Build for local** > **All workers**.

Reviewer 2: In the Unity Editor?

Reviewer 2: It's not clear that this is in the Unity Editor.

1. You need to know the local IP address of your computer to connect. [This page](https://lifehacker.com/5833108/how-to-find-your-local-and-external-ip-address) (on the Lifehacker website)  describes how you can find your external and local IP address.

> 1. In a terminal window from the root folder of your SpatialOS project,  run: `spatial local launch --runtime_ip=<your-local-ip>`. (Where `<your-local-ip>` is the IP address you just located.) You cannot use **SpatialOS** > **Local launch** in your Unity Editor as you would normally, because you need to specify the runtime IP. It’s done when you see the following message in the terminal: `SpatialOS ready. Access the Inspector at http://localhost:21000/inspector`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. In a terminal window from the root folder of your SpatialOS project,  run: `spatial local launch --runtime_ip=<your-local-ip>`. (Where `<your-local-ip>` is the IP address you just located.) 
<br/> **NOTE:** You cannot use **SpatialOS** > **Local launch** in your Unity Editor as you would normally, because you need to specify the runtime IP. 
<br/>It’s done when you see the following message in the terminal: `SpatialOS ready. Access the Inspector at http://localhost:21000/inspector`.
```

Reviewer 2: Space it out a bit as there's three bits of info there.

Author: fixed

> 1. In the Unity Editor, navigate to **Edit** > **Project Settings** > **Player**. This should open **PlayerSettings** in the Inspector window.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. In the Unity Editor, navigate to **Edit** > **Project Settings** > **Player**. This opens **PlayerSettings** in the Inspector window.
```

Author: fixed

> 1. In the Inspector window, navigate to **Settings for iOS (the iPhone icon)** > **Other Settings** > **Configuration** > **Target SDK** and choose **Device SDK**.

Reviewer 2: Same suggestions as above to make it a bit easier to follow.
The ` **item** > **item**` standard is usually for menus only.

Author: fixed

1. Also in the **Configuration** section of the Inspector window, select **Targer minimum iOS version** and input `10.0`.
1. In the Unity Editor, navigate to **File** > **Build Settings**, and ensure that iOS is selected. Selection is indicated by a Unity logo that appears next to the name of the selected platform. If iOS is not selected, select it and then select **Switch Platform**.
1. Select **Build**. This prompts you to choose where to save the XCode project that Unity generates. Select a directory and Unity generates the XCode project.
1. After the build has finished, Unity opens the folder containing the project. Open the project in XCode, select the Project root, go to **General** > **Signing** and sign the project.

>     > If you choose **Build and Run** instead of **Build** Unity generates the XCode project, automatically opens it for you and starts the build to install the game on the connected device. This will most likely fail, because you need to first sign the application as described in the previous step.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    > **TIP:**  If you choose **Build and Run** instead of **Build** Unity generates the XCode project, automatically opens it for you and starts the build to install the game on the connected device. This will most likely fail, because you need to first sign the application as described above.
```

    >

>     > For subsequent runs you will be prompted to pick XCode project directory again (with the one used previously preselected). You can generate a new project or append/replace existing one. In subsequent runs, if you've set up provisioning and use Append, you can use **Build and Run** to trigger project run automatically after XCode project was generated.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    > For subsequent runs you will be prompted to pick an XCode project directory again (with the one you chose previously pre-selected). You can either generate a new project, append or replace an existing one. In subsequent runs, if you've set up provisioning and choose to append an existing project, you can use **Build and Run** to trigger a project run automatically once the XCode project has been generated.
```
Not sure on "append" here - have assumed this is how it works - as an alternative to new or replace. :-)

# Connect to a local deployment

> This page explains how to connect an iOS client to a local deployment of SpatialOS. You can do this from inside your [Unity Editor](#in-editor), using the [Unity Remote](#unity-remote) app, using the [iOS Simulator](#ios-simulator) or using your own [iOS device](#ios-device).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This page describes how to connect an iOS client to a local deployment of SpatialOS. You can do this from inside your [Unity Editor](#in-editor), using the [Unity Remote](#unity-remote) app, using the [iOS Simulator](#ios-simulator) or using your own [iOS device](#ios-device).
```

Reviewer 2: Tiny, subtle difference, I know.

Before reading this document, make sure you are familiar with:

  * [Setting up iOS Support for the GDK]({{urlRoot}}/content/mobile/ios/setup)
  * [Ways to test your iOS client]({{urlRoot}}/content/mobile/ios/ways-to-test)

## Unity Editor{#in-editor}

> 1. In the Unity Editor, Select **SpatialOS** > **Local launch**.<br>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. In the Unity Editor, select **SpatialOS** > **Local launch**.<br>
```

1. Connect your iOS device to your computer using a USB cable. Accept the **Trust This Computer** alert if it appears.
1. Open the project that you want to deploy with the Unity Editor and go to **Edit** > **Project Settings** > **Editor** to bring up the **Editor Settings** window.
1. In the **Unity Remote** section, select **Device** > **Any iOS Device**.
1. On your mobile device, open the **Unity Remote** app. Make sure you allow it permissions for location and camera.
1. In the Unity Editor, Select **SpatialOS** > **Local launch**.<br>
It’s done when you see the following message in the terminal: `SpatialOS ready. Access the Inspector at http://localhost:21000/inspector`.
1. Open the Scene that starts both your [client-workers]({{urlRoot}}/content/glossary#client-worker) and [server-workers]({{urlRoot}}/content/glossary#server-worker). In the FPS Starter Project this is `FPS-Development.scene`.
1. In the Editor’s Game view, select **Play**.

    > **TIP:** You can change the resolution of the Game view in your Unity Editor to make sure it does not appear stretched on your mobile device. Choose the resolution that’s identical to your mobile device to produce the best results.

> 1. You should now see your Unity Editor game view mirrored on your iOS device.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. You should now see your Unity Editor Game view mirrored on your iOS device.
```

# Connect to a local deployment

> This page describes how to connect an iOS client to a local deployment of SpatialOS. You can do this from inside your [Unity Editor](#in-editor), using the [Unity Remote](#unity-remote) app, using the [iOS Simulator](#ios-simulator) or using your own [iOS device](#ios-device).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This page describes how to connect an iOS client to a local deployment of SpatialOS. You can do this using either; just your[Unity Editor](#in-editor), the [Unity Remote](#unity-remote) app, the [iOS Simulator](#ios-simulator), or your own [iOS device](#ios-device).
```

This has caught my eye before - it's not entirely clear there are four separate actions - the second and third look like they are part of the first. Tiny rejig. (If I misunderstood, sorry!)
